content/blog/book_review_hell_yeah_or_no.md, before:

---
title: "Hell Yeah or No by Derek Sivers"
date: 2020-12-04T16:57:46-04:00
draft: false
tags: ["books"]
description: "8/10 - This book spoke to me, and I found it both cathartic and inspiring to read. But it didn't pack the same punch as Your Music and People"
---

# Recommendation
This was a good book. It's a quick read, and I found it very enjoyable. I'm not sure how much of that was because I think it will be a useful book for others to read or if it was simply nice to read about someone that I seem to have so much in common with.

# My thoughts
Similarly to _Your Music and People_, I was surprised to discover how short this book was, but it is concise and so enjoyable.

Derek Sivers has proven to me that it is possible to live life in a way that most other people don't. Many of the paths that he has followed are paths that I am on, and it is heartening to learn that someone else has been here, and they made it to the other side.

## Travel
The author has traveled significantly, and I appreciated hearing about a different way to do it. I have been a nomad in the past, and I spent several years basically living nowhere. I would be somewhere for 2-6 weeks, and then I would be somewhere else. So the following bit releived some tension that I still have when thinking about that:

> I feel equally connected to many places.
> Just because I live in one place now, that doesn't mean I should ignore the others.
> To me, the emphsis on local stuff never felt right.

## Freedom
The thing I want out of life is freedom. In the book, he provides a suggestion for how to acheive freedom, and his suggestion (become a business owner) is exactly what I'm doing. The validation felt good.

## America
> I had heard that America was the land of entrepreneurs and overconfidence, but I couldn't really see it until I was outside it

I read this book on my way back from Europe, and it is spot on. A lot of other cultures place much more importance in stability and working together. America is all about "rugged individualism". Or, stated differently: "fuck you, I'm doing it my way, and nothing will stand in my way"

## Auctions
There is a very insightful thought experiment in this book:

Suppose you put up a $100 bill at an auction, but there's a catch. The person who comes in second has to pay what they bid.

> Once they get to $99, the other person offering $98 thinks, "Uh oh. The other person isn't backing down"
> They raise their bid to $100 so as not to be the second highest bidder and lose it all

And then the bids keep going.

I had not heard of this thought experiment before, but it is a really good way of explaining lots of bad human behavior.

## Working hard
There are two conflicting points brought up in the book. On the one hand, you should work really hard, because:

> "the standard pace is for chumps"
> [...]
> If you're  more driven than most people, you can do way more than anyone expects

But then, he goes on to tell a story of taking a relaxing bike ride and doing almost exactly as well as he had when he was all-out sprinting.

This is something that I have experienced as well. Pushing through things is a recipe for success, but it's easy to overdo it and end up doing negative work by pushing too hard.

## Finding your passion
This book had the best advice I have found for finding your passion:

> What do you hate not doing?
> 
> What makes you feel depressed, annoyed, or like your life has gone astray if you don't do it enough?

## The future
While reading, I got this idea that the future is a garden that you cultivate. Thinking of all the things that you could do in the future is a fun exercise, and sometimes people will appreciate it for what it is. But it isn't going to be useful for accomplishing anything else.

## Why is your picture in the book?
If, for some reason, Derek reads this, I have a bone to pick with you. In the book, you state:

> When I buy a book that has a picture of the author on the cover ,I rip off and trash the cover before I even leave the store.
> I don't care who the author is.
> All that matters are the ideas inside the book and what I do with them.

And yet, this book has a picture of your face on page 2.

# Action items
This book provided me with a couple of personal action items including discussing particular topics with some people I am close with and:
 - Listening to (and judging) Sivers' music
 - Creating a "Possible futures" note-set in my collection of notes.
 - Adding "output" to my daily notes.
	 - I ended up calling this "artifacts"

Commit message:

Hell yeah or now book review

content/blog/book_review_hell_yeah_or_no.md, after:

---
title: "Hell Yeah or No by Derek Sivers"
date: 2020-12-04T16:57:46-07:00
draft: false
tags: ["books"]
description: "8/10 - This book spoke to me, and I found it both cathartic and inspiring to read. But it didn't pack the same punch as Your Music and People"
---

# Recommendation
This was a good book. It's a quick read, and I found it very enjoyable. I'm not sure how much of that was because I think it will be a useful book for others to read or if it was simply nice to read about someone that I seem to have so much in common with.

# My thoughts
Similarly to _Your Music and People_, I was surprised to discover how short this book was, but it is concise and so enjoyable.

Derek Sivers has proven to me that it is possible to live life in a way that most other people don't. Many of the paths that he has followed are paths that I am on, and it is heartening to learn that someone else has been here, and they made it to the other side.

## Travel
The author has traveled significantly, and I appreciated hearing about a different way to do it. I have been a nomad in the past, and I spent several years basically living nowhere. I would be somewhere for 2-6 weeks, and then I would be somewhere else. So the following bit releived some tension that I still have when thinking about that:

> I feel equally connected to many places.
> Just because I live in one place now, that doesn't mean I should ignore the others.
> To me, the emphsis on local stuff never felt right.

## Freedom
The thing I want out of life is freedom. In the book, he provides a suggestion for how to acheive freedom, and his suggestion (become a business owner) is exactly what I'm doing. The validation felt good.

## America
> I had heard that America was the land of entrepreneurs and overconfidence, but I couldn't really see it until I was outside it

I read this book on my way back from Europe, and it is spot on. A lot of other cultures place much more importance in stability and working together. America is all about "rugged individualism". Or, stated differently: "fuck you, I'm doing it my way, and nothing will stand in my way"

## Auctions
There is a very insightful thought experiment in this book:

Suppose you put up a $100 bill at an auction, but there's a catch. The person who comes in second has to pay what they bid.

> Once they get to $99, the other person offering $98 thinks, "Uh oh. The other person isn't backing down"
> They raise their bid to $100 so as not to be the second highest bidder and lose it all

And then the bids keep going.

I had not heard of this thought experiment before, but it is a really good way of explaining lots of bad human behavior.

## Working hard
There are two conflicting points brought up in the book. On the one hand, you should work really hard, because:

> "the standard pace is for chumps"
> [...]
> If you're  more driven than most people, you can do way more than anyone expects

But then, he goes on to tell a story of taking a relaxing bike ride and doing almost exactly as well as he had when he was all-out sprinting.

This is something that I have experienced as well. Pushing through things is a recipe for success, but it's easy to overdo it and end up doing negative work by pushing too hard.

## Finding your passion
This book had the best advice I have found for finding your passion:

> What do you hate not doing?
> 
> What makes you feel depressed, annoyed, or like your life has gone astray if you don't do it enough?

## The future
While reading, I got this idea that the future is a garden that you cultivate. Thinking of all the things that you could do in the future is a fun exercise, and sometimes people will appreciate it for what it is. But it isn't going to be useful for accomplishing anything else.

## Why is your picture in the book?
If, for some reason, Derek reads this, I have a bone to pick with you. In the book, you state:

> When I buy a book that has a picture of the author on the cover ,I rip off and trash the cover before I even leave the store.
> I don't care who the author is.
> All that matters are the ideas inside the book and what I do with them.

And yet, this book has a picture of your face on page 2.

**UPDATE:** I ended up trading emails with Derek Sivvers (he's a super approachable dude), and I think I misunderstood the quote. I believe what he's saying is that the author shouldn't be the one selling the book. The ideas of the book should be doing the selling - more specifically, don't buy _Hell Yeah or No_ because it was written by Derek Sivers; buy it because it has compelling ideas that are worth reading. Howevver, it's still interesting to know who the author is, so putting a bio in the book is fine.

# Action items
This book provided me with a couple of personal action items including discussing particular topics with some people I am close with and:
 - Listening to (and judging) Sivers' music
 - Creating a "Possible futures" note-set in my collection of notes.
 - Adding "output" to my daily notes.
	 - I ended up calling this "artifacts"
